I promised you at the beginning
that we would have
a way to take that very wordy way of,
you know having all of these
different class fields, right?
Remember we had like make model and
year each written four times.
The answer here is something
called param properties and
I'll show you a freestanding
example because that the car class
up top is getting a little big and
cumbersome and complicated.
I haven't make property here and
you have to imagine we can add
model in near here but so,
this is this is interesting, we have
the word public here in an arguments list.
Seems weird,
you can't do this with functions,
you can't do this with methods
only with a constructor signature.
And what this is
constructor signature for,
is actually the easiest way for me to
cover this is Let me go to the example and
jump to the TypeScript playground here.
And we can see the compiled
output really quick.
So here's public make, model, and year,
here's the JavaScript, this.make = make,
this.model = model, this.year = year.
What it's doing is it's creating
class fields, make model and
year of the correct types of identical
names of these parameters here.
And then it's doing
the assignment of the constructor,
ARGs to those class fields, right?
So it's taking these and it's putting
them in the respective fields, and
of course it's also setting up
the appropriate types on those fields.
So if we look back in here,
we can do this.make and
something's there and
its value has been set.
So this is the abbreviated syntax,
we can go back up to
the complicated example here.
We could delete this,
and we could just here,
write public,
we could this other format there.
There you go, that's our constructor, it
does exactly what the old constructor did,
just much more abbreviated syntax
because this is such a common thing.
And to have class fields and
constructor parameters of the same
names in that assignment,
it's such a common thing that it's worth
it to have some special syntax for it.
Just to reduce the noise in every
kind of class that you might have.
I see a question in the chat
that I wanna address real quick,
it's about this static block,
which we dealt with a little while ago.
So the question from Alexandria is
you can't really use this class until
the static block completes how would you
ensure that new is not called before
the block completes.
Honestly what I do is something like this.
And then before invoking the constructor,
I would check to see if the class
is ready or I might wait for
this to indicate that it's
ready before I like booted my
application and started calling any code.
That might instantiate cars but
you do need a piece of data there that
that lets you have some signal as
to whether the data is landed and
whether this initialization has completed.
That is work you have to do there,
only if you're doing async
stuff in your static blocks.
Sorry for the little tangent there, but
I think that's worth looping back for.
All right, keep going onward.
Overrides, so
this just recently landed in TypeScript,
I think it's a TypeScript
five feature here.
And I wanna first illustrate the need for
this with an example,
so if you remember we had a class car
has a does it have a honk property?
Yep, there's the honk property,
and so if we go down,
we have added an extra O in here,
we've misspelled this method name.
And this is a truck, it's honking
in all caps because it's truck and
not much is helping us here,
I think I have a just a spelling error,
so this is TypeScript not
helping us at all here.
And, so if we do this,
we instantiate this truck,
we're gonna get the hunk
method on the base class.
I got a hug for five seconds or something.
So the problem here is
this is very common,
long method names, misspellings happen.
The only thing that's even remotely
catching this is a spell checker,
and if I just had You know, a word here,
a misspelling that happened to be a word,
I'd have nothing warning
me of this situation.
So TypeScript introduces
a keyword here called override.
Override is it is you
expressing the intent,
that this should override
a base class method and
thus a base class method
must exist of the same name.
And here we go, member cannot have
an override modifier cuz it's not
declared in the base class,
did you mean honk?
If I delete this that works or
should, sorry, I have to take in.
Something like that.
Is that what the problem was?
I have to return beep, my bad.
There, now it's happy.
So override is great, it helps to
helps like keep that linkage in place.
The thing you'd want watch out for
if you didn't have this, of course,
is you're not really overriding the base
method and so your custom code for
your subclass is not being run it all.
There's another problem
that this helps with, and
that is if the base
method's name has changed.
So if we go up here we were like I
really want honk there we should see.
Yeah, we see an indication that all right,
my subclasses are lighting up,
that linkage,
that refactoring is not complete and,
it's gonna tell me that I
need to take care of that.
Now, what happens if you're
not super vigilant here?
Well, sometimes you forget to put the
override, I mean, it'd be easy to forget.
Especially, let's say initially,
there was no honk in car,
and then it was added later.
What we can do in our tsconfig
is say noImplicitOverride,
so I'm gonna add that to our notes.
Notes/tsconfig.
Let's add noImplicitOverride: true, save.
And what happens here is if we're
lucky enough to not make the typo,
we're prompted to add the override
modifier, We're told, hook this up.
It's useful, it's here to help you,
it doesn't let you override unless
you use this keyword, which is a great way
to ensure that it's consistently used.
Now, you can always fat-finger
a method name from the start,
and it's tough to help you
there like there's nothing
TypeScript can do to understand
whether that was your intent.
Or maybe you did want a method with
a different name, but once you get this
right you can kind of establish it and
this will catch a lot of the other places.
This is an amazing tool to help with
refactoring to make refactoring a lot
easier.